[Back to the list of dimensions](../taxonomy.md)
# WORK ORGANIZATION
Work organization dimension groups work satisfaction factors related to employee satisfaction of working in an organization where all work processes are managed smoothly and efficiently.

## OBJECTIVES
Being given achievable, relevant, and clearly defined objectives.

### DEMANDING OR UNREALISTIC OBJECTIVES
> Leaders set unrealistic objectives or demand too much from employees. Organization may be under pressure to perform and might use excessive pressure to motivate staff.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *100% effort is never enough*
* *asking for 200% over a goal*
* *unrealistic demands*
* *expectations to perform at 110% all the time*
* *unachievable quotas*

### UNCLEAR OBJECTIVES
> Employees are unclear about what they are supposed to do. They might have difficulty understanding objectives of their work because of unclear instructions, goals, and targets communicated by management or because of lacking training in critical areas such as project management.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *unclear scope of work*
* *ambigous directions*
* *undefined priorities*
* *unclear expectations*
* *undefined goals*

### UNSTABLE OR CONFLICTING OBJECTIVES
> Leaders are constantly changing targets, metrics, priorities, or expectations. Employees are unsure what they should be doing and often receive conflicting instructions. This can be the consequence of poor communication from leaders or a lack of clarity in decision-making.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *erratic behavior from the top*
* *moving targets*
* *decision making seems to be chaotic*
* *priorities can change at a moment's notice*
* *frequently changing objectives*


## PLACE OF WORK
Working in a place of work that is safe, well-maintained, comfortable and conveniently located.

### DIFFICULT COMMUTE
> Commute to workplace seems too long due to heavy traffic or poor public transportation.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *didn't like the commuting time*
* *my commute is rather long*
* *the commute is a bit too long for me*
* *traffic jams on the way to office*
* *long commute*

### DISTRACTING PLACE OF WORK
> Employees perceive workplace as too loud and distracting. Poor office layout, lack of soundproofing, or noise generated by other employees may be issues. Employees could experience health problems due to noise pollution.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *loud and distracting office layout*
* *noise at work*
* *distracting place to be*
* *hard to concentrate due to noise*
* *noisy environment*

### HIGH COST OF LIVING NEARBY
> Employees feel organization is located in area with high living costs. They must choose between unaffordable housing nearby or long commutes.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *high cost of living in the area*
* *location is expensive*
* *rent costs are high*
* *very expensive to live in this area*
* *costly residence near office*

### INADEQUATE PARKING OPTIONS
> Employees believe organization may not offer adequate or affordable parking. Parking may be difficult to navigate, unprotected from weather, or there may be issues with vandalism or theft. It may seem some employees more easily have access to free parking, yet there is no official rule regarding who does.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *parking is expensive*
* *no parking facilities*
* *difficult to park*
* *parking should be closer to the office*
* *company does not reimburse parking*

### INCONVENIENT OR UNSAFE LOCATION
> Employees believe workplace is located in an inconvenient or unsafe place. It might be far from the city center, the location may seem isolated from the rest of organization, or the area could be crime-ridden.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *located in the middle of nowhere*
* *location is not great*
* *bad location*
* *dangerous neighborhood*
* *surrounding neighborhood can be unsafe*

### OVERCROWDED PLACE OF WORK
> Employees feel workplace is overcrowded. Personal space or room for working ergonomically is inadequate.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *congested office*
* *small workplace*
* *not enough space in the office*
* *small space per employee*
* *tight workspace*

### RUN-DOWN PLACE OF WORK
> Employees perceive workplace as antiquated and run-down. Organization is unable to renovate or maintain it.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *old furniture*
* *old office*
* *dilapidated office space*
* *need renovation*
* *office building not maintained*

### SUBSTANDARD PLACE OF WORK
> Employees perceive workplace as not meeting basic standards of hygiene. Problems may include dirt, mold, lack of natural light, or other unpleasant conditions which can impact employees’ health.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *filthy office*
* *it is unbearably bright in the office*
* *lot of dust*
* *broken desks*
* *unpleasant smell at work*

### UNCOMFORTABLE PLACE OF WORK
> In employees' view, workplace does not feel comfortable or lacks modernity and associated amenities. Staff might not have access to well-equipped gyms, cafeterias, meeting rooms, or other facilities. Furnishings may also be uncomfortable.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *no standing desks*
* *no areas to work outside or eat lunch*
* *long distance to lockers*
* *office ergonomics should be improved*
* *need a better gym*

### UNSAFE PLACE OF WORK
> Employees perceive workplace as posing imminent danger to physical or psychological health, most commonly due to work hazards not eliminated or controlled properly. Security may be lax, resulting in a threat of robbery or assault by customers or other employees.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *high incidence of injuries*
* *employees under influence of drugs or alcohol*
* *working with dangerous chemicals*
* *drunk customers*
* *daily oil burns and blisters*


## PROCESSES
Working in an organization that has efficient business processes and is not hampered by bureaucracy and overregulation.

### BUREAUCRACY OR OVERREGULATION
> Organizational procedures seem bureaucratic or overly regulated to employees. Excessive processes and paperwork may be required to perform duties. Employees could also feel system is too inflexible to adapt to changing business needs.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *bureaucratic*
* *lot of regulations*
* *too many procedures*
* *reporting heavy*
* *too much red tape*


## TOOLS
Being provided with adequate and modern tools for the job.

### OUTDATED, INEFFICIENT, OR MISSING TOOLS
> Organization is seen by employees as using outdated or inefficient tools. Infrastructure may need updating, staff may lack hardware, technology stack could be outdated, legacy codebase might be difficult to maintain or replace, systems and applications used by employees could be of very poor quality or simply outdated.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *huge amounts of tech debt*
* *slow computers*
* *no tools*
* *lots of non-standard tooling*
* *lack of automation*


## TRAINING
Being offered sufficient training during onboarding and throughout employment.

### INADEQUATE OR SLOW ONBOARDING
> Organization fails to provide new hires with adequate support during first few weeks of employment. Employees complain about substandard training, inadequate onboarding materials, or long onboarding processes.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *lack of initial training*
* *more time should be provided to ramp up*
* *new hires need better training*
* *not enough help for new hires*
* *employee ramp-up could be better*

### INADEQUATE TRAINING
> Organization does not provide employees adequate training to do their jobs. Employees might complain that training is underfunded and poor. Complaints may also include absence of investment in certiﬁcation programs and external training.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *no training on newer tech*
* *no training budgets*
* *training teaches you nothing*
* *useless trainings and certifications*
* *low knowledge sharing*


## WORK ARRANGEMENTS
Working in an organization offering attractive work arrangements including adequate paid hours, permanent employment, flexible work schedule, opportunity to take days off, and remote support.

### DIFFICULT TO GET ENOUGH PAID TIME
> Organization does not provide employees with requested paid hours. Complaints may include insufficient weekly hours and overtime, or being sent home early due to lack of work.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *not enough hours*
* *no full-time vacancies*
* *not being able to stay extra hours*
* *fighting for hours*
* *sitting on the bench*

### DIFFICULT TO TAKE DAYS OFF
> Getting time off is difficult. Employees might fear being penalized for taking owed paid leave, or may be unable to do so during certain periods. Vacation policy may be unclear and accrued days could end up being forfeited.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *afraid to take vacation*
* *unable to take time off*
* *people are scared to take vacation*
* *impossible to take time off*
* *pretty hard to get time off*

### INFLEXIBLE WORK SCHEDULE
> Work schedules do not allow for flexibility and starting and finishing times are fixed. Organization might also limit part-time schedules or does not provide necessary support for employees desiring reduced schedules.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *non flexible working hours*
* *schedules are inflexible*
* *inflexible about switching shifts*
* *no part time*
* *strict working hours 8-6*

### PERMANENT EMPLOYMENT HARD TO GET
> Organization does not offer enough permanent positions. Policies may be in place giving preference to outside contractors. Employees might complain being kept on short-term contracts with no prospect for full-time employment.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *short-term contracts*
* *short-term roles*
* *hiring on contract basis*
* *moved all employees to contractor mode*
* *difficult to become blue badge*

### POOR REMOTE WORK SUPPORT
> Organization either does not allow or provides inadequate support for working remotely. Employees often complain about lack of infrastructural support, poor connectivity, or lack of reimbursement for the equipment necessary to perform work from home.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *lack of work from home*
* *removed most work from home opportunities*
* *no longer remote-friendly*
* *does not allow telecommuting*
* *telework is restricted*

### SHORT OR RIGID BREAKS
> Organization does not provide employees adequate breaks during workday. Employees might complain about short lunches or coffee breaks, and being rushed back to work after each break. Organization may set ineffective break times (e.g. at the beginning end of shifts). Complaints may also be that breaks are mandatory or unpaid.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *rigid one-hour lunches*
* *I couldn't even go to the bathroom*
* *8 hours of work without a break*
* *breaks are short*
* *only one break*

### UNSTABLE WORK SCHEDULE
> Organization changes work schedules too often. Changes may occur seasonally (during holiday periods or peak seasons) or leadership may lack planning skills. Employees might complain about having to work extra hours without prior notification or last-minute, confusing or oft-changing schedules.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *inconsistent schedule*
* *inconsistent work hours*
* *rotational shifts*
* *no regular rest days*
* *unpredictable hours*


## WORK PACE
Being able to work at a comfortable pace, without being overloaded and with reasonable deadlines.

### SLOW WORK PACE
> Employees consider pace of work too slow. There is a lack of initiative, or no urgency or pressure to perform. Employees may feel demotivated and without a sense of achievement.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *lethargic place*
* *work pace here is slow*
* *experience of work is relaxed*
* *the pace of work is not very fast*
* *lacks dynamism or speed*

### TIGHT DEADLINES
> Leadership sets unrealistic time frames for completion of work. Deadlines are widely perceived as realistically impossible to meet. This could be a result of poorly balanced workloads, lack of planning, or unrealistic expectations.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *timelines impossible to hit*
* *deadlines are pretty hectic*
* *constant death march to deadlines*
* *timelines get ever shorter and shorter*
* *tight timeframes for deadlines*

### WORK OVERLOAD
> Employees may have an excessive workload, too much responsibility, or too many customers. Organization requires too much from employees, regardless of costs to health and well-being.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *hard to keep up*
* *I feel overworked*
* *always in a rush*
* *work your fingers to the bone*
* *overwhelmed with work*


## WORKING TIME
Working in an organization that offers a regular and socially-accepted schedule without excessive hours or frequent travel.

### FREQUENT OR LONG TRAVELS
> Organization requires employees to travel extensively putting an unnecessary strain on personal lives or health.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *a lot of traveling*
* *3 days of travel per week*
* *requirement to travel frequently*
* *always away from home*
* *lost weekends due to travels*

### LONG HOURS ON WORKDAYS
> Employees have to work in excess of number of contracted hours. Organizations might not limit permitted daily hours. Employees may feel obligated to stay after hours.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *too many hours*
* *working 9+ hours per day*
* *working until late*
* *work unlimited hours*
* *constant overtime*

### NON-STANDARD WORK HOURS
> Work is done outside of standard, local business hours. Employees might complain about having to do shift work, working early mornings or late evenings, and having to be available for calls outside of normal business hours.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *calls outside of working hours*
* *working outside of 9-5*
* *very early mornings*
* *late shifts*
* *night shifts*

### WORK ON DAYS OFF
> Employees have to work weekends, bank holidays, or during vacations and sick leave. Organization might either request this or create an environment where this is implicitly expected.

__Exemplary statements reported by employees:__

* *working on weekends*
* *working on holidays*
* *working during vacation*
* *work during sick leave*
* *no weekends off*

